Welcome back.
So we know about prototype oil inheritance in JavaScript and we can use that to our advantage to move
a little bit closer towards object oriented programming.
We want to solve this issue of having same functionality on multiple objects.
How can we share that before we get to prototype of inheritance.
There is one way of just doing this manually.
Right.
I can simply take out this function and this function at the top can be placed in some sort of a store
that we have common functionality.
For example I can do const elf functions and I can even call this elf function stores or store and in
here I can just simply have attack
and do something like this so that I have a simple object that has the attack method on it.
And all I need to do now to give the attack ability to Peter and Sam is to add a line here that says
Peter dot attack is going to equal the elf functions dot attack and then same with Sam will do the same
thing we'll say Sam dot attack.
So we're adding a new property onto Sam and that property is going to equal the elf functions dot attack.
Now if I run this I get an error weapon is not defined because well this elf functions object has no
idea what weapon is.
Right.
So how can we refer to the object that's calling us remember who's calling us.
Well the object to the left of the dot right is so in this case albeit this dot weapon who's calling
us Sam is calling us or Peter is calling us.
If I run this all right everything is working.
Sam can now attack with fire and that's not too bad right.
We have shared functionality here but it's still a lot of manual work.
Javascript gives us a nice little tool for us to make this a lot easier on our self we can do something
called the object dot create which we've seen in the previous sections with object to create I can clean
this up a bit instead of having to manually attach these methods onto each elf remember if we had a
thousand elves that's going to be a lot of work instead I'm going to remove these lines of code and
use object to create to create that link that prototype chain between these two parts of the code and
the way we can do that is fairly simple we can say new ELF is going to equal object dot create an object
create is going to take well what do we want to create an object from.
We want to create an object from this elf function store which is an object.
This could probably be named a little bit better because it is confusing it's an object even though
I call it elf functions.
So maybe you can say store here but for now let's leave it the way it is Elf functions.
So I'm going to create an object from the elf function and I'm going to assign that to new wealth so
let's just say let new wealth from here this new ELF.
We can attach the name and weapon property so let's do new ELF Dot.
Name is going to equal the parameter name that we receive and new ELF.
Make sure I spelled out right new ELF dot weapon is going to equal weapon parameter that we receive
and then finally we want to return the new elf from you
let's see if that works.
If I run this look at that it's working.
Let's console log this just so we can see both of these in action and console log here as well if I
run this look at that attack with stone attack with fire.
Both Peter and Sam have the attack method and why were we able to do that.
Well because we used object dot create what object does create does is it creates a link between the
elf functions and the new elf that we just created we're doing prototype all inheritance here.
If I console log new health here and I run this I see that it creates an empty object for me but where
is this attack.
Remember this is an object.
So if I do dot underscore underscore Kroto to see what's up the prototype chain I get attack so object
dot create creates this prototype chain for us all the way up so that we can use attack.
Very very cool all right.
So object that create solved all of our problems.
Everything is working now we are done right.
Here's the thing what we're doing with object to create is true prototype all inheritance.
It's meant to be used like this.
The code is a little bit cleaner now we have less lines of code.
And I personally really like this.
However you won't see this out in most code bases.
I wouldn't say this is very standard or accepted by the javascript community as a whole.
Now I don't want to get into a philosophical debate here but our goal in this section is to get closer
and closer to object oriented programming.
And the thing is what we're doing here isn't necessarily object oriented programming yet you'll see
why in a second what I'm going to show you in the next video is actually something that we had before.
Object I create that programmers used before we even had this ability because some people really didn't
like the look of what I'm about to show you next.
So keep this in mind and in the next video we'll see how we can get closer to object oriented programming
and not use object create.
And don't worry we'll come back to this and look at some of the pros and cons I'll see in the next one.
Oh I.